[DOOR LOCK BEEPS THEN BUZZES]
Hey. Pete. You have a good one.
Uh-huh.
[ENGINE REVS]
[MUSIC PLAYING OVER CAR SPEAKERS]
MAN:
See you tomorrow. Pete.
Where is everybody?
Gene?
OFFICER:
Oh. my God.
Call it in! Signal 63!
Get some help. now!
[ALARM WAILING]
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
[SIGHS]
[CLEARS THROAT]
[KEYPAD BEEPS]
WOMAN [ON TV]:
--where he was a professor of literature.
So far. five guards are confirmed dead
from this prison escape.
MAN [ON TV]:
--prison early this morning.
As you may recall.
Carroll was convicted in 2004...
...!'or the murders of 14 young women...
attended the university...
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
...where he was a professor of literature.
Hello?
FRANKLIN [OVER PHONE]:
Hello. Ryan. it's Director Franklin. FBI.
- It's been a while.
- Yeah.
What can I do for you. sir?
FRANKLIN:
We need you in Virginia. Ryan.
I'm not an agent anymore.
I know things didn't end well
with the Bureau. but you caught Carroll.
No one knows him like you m.
I've got good agents on ii.
Go consult. educate them.
We have to find him fast.
MAN [ON TV]: So far. five guards are
confirmed dead from the prison escape.
Joe Carroll is still at large.
FRANKLIN [OVER PHONE]:
Will you do it. Ryan?
[SIREN WAILING]
[TIRES SCREECH]
Sarah Fuller?
Detective Warren. Norfolk P.D.
We're on behalf of the U.S. Marshals Office.
Okay.
What's going on?
Joe Carroll. He escaped from prison
earlier this morning.
I'm sorry. he what?
WOMAN:
And where was the knife at this point'?
The knife that was used
to stab you repeatedly.
It was still inside me.
I reached down to pull it out.
but I was too weak.
WOMAN:
So. what did you do?
I pushed it. instead...
...deeper into my stomach and to the right.
Why would you do that?
To puncture the splenic artery.
to bleed out faster.
I just wanted it to be over.
WARREN: I'll have men in place both inside
and out. Strictly precautionary.
We're gonna keep you safe.
MAN: Whoa. can't let you in.
WILL: I'm her neighbor. Will Wilson.
He's okay.
WILL:
Sarah.
I saw the news. It's all over TV.
Billy's on his way home. We're here for you.
Whatever you need.
[WHIMPERING]
I'm so glad you're here.
TROY:
Ryan Hardy. I'm Agent Troy Riley. BAU2.
This is Agent Jennifer Mason.
JENNIFER:
Thank you for coming.
Not sure what Franklin told you.
Marshals are heading the search.
We're running point for the Bureau.
Command center set up in town.
JENNIFER:
Your being here may raise eyebrows.
That book you wrote.
Not to mention my reputation.
We'll do the talking.
If anyone asks. you're here
strictly as a consultant. Questions?
Yeah. How's Sarah Fuller'?
Carroll's last victim.
She's a doctor now in Norfolk.
- Is she safe?
- Yes. She's under 24/7 watch.
- I'd like to speak to her.
JENNIFER: About what?
I'd like to know how she's doing.
Perhaps later
when we're not trying to find a serial killer.
TURNER:
He kills all of them in under two minutes.
There he goes.
[RYAN SIGHS]
Ryan Hardy.
this is Deputy Marshal Scott Turner.
I know Ryan. I was with the sheriffs office
when he brought Carroll in.
Scott.
Director Franklin asked Mr. Hardy
to consult.
Then he's your problem. Agent.
He left it like this.
Forensics swept. Nothing.
He's scheduled to be executed next month.
The twelfth.
Still the romantic.
[SIGHS]
Who let him have this?
JENNIFER:
Anyone could have.
"Dear Ryan. I enjoyed your book.
Have you ever considered a sequel?
Best. Joe."
You never mentioned a note.
- Any idea why he left that for you?
- He enjoyed my book. Said so.
- He's letting us know he plans to kill again.
- That's probably it.
Look. I read your file.
I know you don't play well with others.
You read my file? So you know me.
is that what it is?
Forget it.
Claire Matthews. Carroll's ex-wife.
Has anyone been in touch with her?
She's being questioned.
We have her under protection as well.
[PEOPLE SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
Sorry for the intrusion. Ms. Matthews.
I have a few questions.
When was the last time
your husband contacted you?
Ex-husband.
And I don't mean to be rude. detective...
...but I'm gonna wait for the FBI to arrive.
And I need to speak to Ryan Hardy.
Thank you.
[GASPS]
[BOTH CHUCKLES]
So how did it go?
It's official. I'm pregnant.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
JOEY:
Mom? Mom?
- Yeah. honey.
JOEY: What's going on?
Why can't I watch TV?
- I didn't know what to say.
- Um...
It's Dad. isn't it?
Oh. honey.
I need to speak to someone
about Joe Carroll?
Fill this out.
Take a seat with the others.
WESTON:
He studied in the States...
...married and became a professor
at Winslow University.
Also. a budding novelist.
In 2003. Carroll's first and only novel...
...The Gothic Sea. was published.
It became a best-seller...
...but in its initial printing.
it was a commercial and critical flop.
This triggered his piquerism. the act
of stabbing. slicing ﬂesh for arousal--
RYAN:
That's not accurate.
I'm sorry.
would you like to say something. sir?
By all means. if I've got it wrong.
please correct me.
Ryan Hardy.
Joe Carroll was obsessed
with the Romantic Period.
His lectures
consisted of Thoreau. Emerson...
...in particular. his hero. Edgar Allan Poe.
Like Poe. he believed in the insanity of art.
That it had to be felt.
He didn't just eviscerate
14 female students...
...he was making art.
He cut out his victim's eyes
as a nod to his favorite works of Poe:
"The Tell-Tale Heart" and "The Black Cat."
Poe believed that the eyes are our identity.
windows to our soul.
To classify him as a piquerist
would be too simplistic.
WESTON:
Okay. guys. Thanks.
Mike Weston. ifs a real honor. sir.
I did my thesis on Joe Carroll
at the Academy.
Your book was. heh. invaluable.
It's a real thrill for me. sir.
JENNIFER:
Hardy.
Wow. heh. that was pathetic.
The man is a hero.
Took down Carroll single-handed.
And the Bureau still let him go.
You haven't read his book. have you?
He's on disability.
Turner said he lost it. went crazy.
Carroll stabbed him in the chest.
punctured his left ventricular.
He can't be in the field.
Got a pacemaker keeping it all pumping.
Who are the women?
Carroll's groupies. We're interviewing
anyone who visited him in prison.
Carroll had 112 visitors
in the last two years.
Forty-three in the last six months.
Fourteen visited over four times.
Who had the most access?
Was he confined to his cell?
Any privileges?
Spent most of his time
preparing for his appeal.
Forgone legal aid.
representing himself.
- His records.
- He had access to a legal library?
Every Tuesday.
Carroll was shackled and transported...
...to the Sussex County Law Library.
Confined to a sealed room. one guard.
- And furnished with law books.
- Actual books or digital files?
Digital. Everything's archived
on the library's server.
- He had Internet access?
-It would have been restricted.
Because that would stop Joe Carroll.
- We need to rip apart the library's Ethernet.
- Get the cyber techs.
[ALL SCREAMING]
WOMAN: No!
- Stand back!
Take it easy. ma'am.
easy. easy!
Drop the weapon!
Drop the weapon! Drop it!
Ma'am. ma'am. Look at me. look at me.
You don't wanna do this.
Okay?
Just hand that thing to me.
And everything's gonna be okay.
-"Lord. help my poor soul."
- No.
- No. no.
[ALL SCREAMING]
[GASPING]
She's right-handed. She did
most of the upper-left region herself.
But this is someone else. Carroll. possibly.
- We're running analysis for a match.
- Thank you.
Once upon a midnight dreary
"The Raven."
This fever called "Living"
is conquered at last.
It's all Poe.
- And what she said at the end--
- Poe's last words.
When found delirious on the streets.
he's believed to have uttered:
"Lord. help my poor soul."
- Is that water. sin'?
- Yes.
Mint?
Sure.
We've run her prints.
So far. we've found seven identities.
Four are wanted in three states.
Two visited Carroll in the last six months.
- Anything on the cell phone?
Disposable.
The text said. "Do it now."
Carroll could easily convince an unbalanced
brain to do this. exertion of power. theatrics.
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
I have Sarah Fuller for you.
- Hello?
- Mr. Hardy. It's been a long time.
Sarah. Hi. how are you doing?
Well. not great. heh.
[SIGHS]
Listen. we're going to find him.
Nothing's going to happen to you.
I promise you that.
I really appreciate you calling.
I'm just. uh. happy to hear you're safe.
Bye-bye. now.
Bye. Mr. Hardy.
- Thank you.
- They questioned Claire Matthews.
She won't speak to anyone but you.
Why is that?
When I speak to her. I'll ask her.
Thanks.
I don't think you got enough food. babe.
Do we really have to feed the cops?
Can't they just order pizza?
There's plenty of food.
Thank you. Billy.
- How's she doing?
- She's right here. She's fine.
Then why are we ignoring that hot cop
in the corner over there?
- Is he single?
- He's not wearing a ring. I checked.
MAN [ON TV]:
And with his charm and good looks...
...he was understandably a favorite
amongst the female contingent.
Poe's chief principle. Insanity as art.
This is the Romantic Period.
Death is about theme.
mood. motif. emotional aesthetic.
Poe equates death with what?
- He equates death with love?
- No. not love. Poe equates death with--
Beauty?
Poe believed that an was about beauty...
...and that nothing was more beautiful
than the death of a beautiful woman.
Helen. Lenore. Annabel Lee.
"To bereave beauty is...
...to elevate one's soul."
Carroll never visited
the same web address twice...
-...which suggests he's using various URLs.
- Who with?
Every time I access an IP address.
it mutates. it's a sophisticated virus.
Where were the guards when he was
chatting online? Who are these idiots?
The detail changed. but there's one
recurring name: Jordan Raines.
Jordan "Jordy" Raines. 32.
four-year employee...
...death row. works the night shift--
- Was he working last night?
RYAN: Uh...
Called in sick. That's him.
- Prison guard.
- Helped Carroll escape.
- Get his home address.
- Yeah. I got it.
[TIRES SCREECH]
Federal agents. Open up.
Hit it.
MAN 1: Clear the room!
MAN 2: Room clear.
MAN 1:
All clear.
He's not here.
JORDY [ON COMPUTER]:
Hi. Hi. Say hi to the camera.
WESTON:
Guys.
JORDY:
Say hi.
“Hi.”.
Your friends are out there.
That's right. buddy. Sweet pup.
You're gonna want to see this.
[RYAN GAGS]
WESTON:
What is that?
RYAN:
It's a German Shepherd. I think.
[GROWLS]
[ALL GASP]
[YELPS]
Carroll is teaching him
how to become a serial killer.
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
I can handle dead people.
But you kill a dog. I go crazy.
I got this little terrier mix--
Forget it.
- What is that?
- Joe Carroll's novel.
Oh. look. it's inscribed.
"Jordy. you're capable of greatness.
You just have to believe. Joe."
So this Jordy guy is lonely. unstable.
vulnerable lo kindness.
Carroll recognizes his potential
and seduces him.
He's emulating Carroll.
The animals. he removed their eyes.
Jordy looks to Carroll
the way Carroll looks to Poe.
- It's a godlike worship.
-ls Carroll really that powerful?
When I first started to suspect him.
all I had was instinct.
I didn't have any evidence at all.
I was having a hard time convincing people
of my Poe theory.
In the book.
that's when you started following him.
- Yeah. everywhere. Home. Work. School.
- Yeah.
I was waiting for him to get sloppy.
That's when I first recognized Sarah Fuller.
I'd seen her in his class.
I used to sit there and watch him teach.
He was amazing.
He could inspire people. That's a gift.
Hardy. let's go.
- Where to?
-It's time you talked to Claire Matthews.
FEMALE [ON TV]:
No official word at this time...
"but sources have confirmed that a woman
is dead today) by her own hands.
Now the FBI is speculating the victim
may have been...
-...one of Joe Carroll's groupies--
- Enough of that.
I say we watch a movie.
I think I'm gonna lay down for a bit.
If ifs okay with you guys'?
- Yeah.
- That's even a better idea.
You should get some rest.
We're right next door. okay?
- You call us if you need anything.
- We'll come running.
I love you guys.
We love you. Good night.
SARAH: You want me to have manners.
That was creepy.
ANNIE: The whole night's been creepy.
SARAH: Yeah.
SARAH:
It's so quiet.
Because everyone's in Daytona.
Having fun. Everyone but us.
[FAUCET RUNNING]
ANNIE: The hangover has begun.
- I told you not to drink.
I'm not interesting enough to not drink.
That's you--
You Okay?
[FAUCET STOPS]
Annie?
[SCREAMS]
[GASPS]
WARREN:
Sorry.
Just to let you know. there's two officers
outside the door If you need them.
Sure. Thank you.
Claire will be right down.
- Hey. Joey.
- Do I know you?
Yeah. but I haven't seen you
since you were this big.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
Let's let the man do his job.
Professor Matthews?
- Yes?
- Hi.
I'm Agent Ryan Hardy with the FBI.
Can I speak with you?
Sure.
- I didn't know about the eyes.
-It was withheld.
Try Edgar Allan Poe.
Um. "The Tell-Tale Heart." "The Black Cat."
Both have strong eye allegories.
The eyes are symbolic.
The essence of identity.
You should talk to my husband.
He knows a lot about that time period.
- You're married?
- Yes. heh. I'm married. Agent Hardy.
Why? Were you flirting?
[BOTH LAUGH]
With this material? No. not a chance.
- Hello. Ryan.
- Claire.
I'm Agent Mason. Ms. Matthews.
You wanted to speak to Mr. Hardy.
Yes. but I need to speak with him alone.
I'm afraid that's not possible.
I'm afraid I have to insist.
Would you excuse us for a minute?
How's your heart?
Same.
But you're drinking too much.
- Have you heard from him?
- Yeah.
Uh. a week ago. This came for me.
I thought you should see it.
How does he know?
He doesn't. He's guessing.
No one needs to know about this.
Not gonna help us find him.
We have two killers out there now.
He's got help.
[SIGHS]
Are you a COP?
Joe's always teaching.
It was ingrained in him
so it makes sense he would find a student.
Where do you think they would go?
Would he leave the country?
No. Joe's not looking for his freedom.
- He wants to keep killing.
- He's good at it.
I need to find him. Claire.
And I don't think I know how.
I'm sorry I didn't call you.
It's been eight years. Ryan.
I got the hint.
I know when the FBI found out about us.
that was difficult for you.
No. That's not why I didn't call.
You deserve more.
I belong in your past.
I work better in people's pasts.
I always have.
Uh...
The girl is safe? The last victim? She's--?
Sarah Fuller. Uh. yes.
She's under protection.
She's good. She's a doctor now. heh.
I'm glad someone
was able to get beyond this.
I'm sure that upsets Joe.
Why is that?
Heh. he fancies himself Edgar Allan Poe.
That was the impetus for writing his novel.
Poe died with an unfinished manuscript.
"The Light-House."
Joe's novel. The Gothic Sea.
was his way of finishing what Poe started.
- What was that about?
-It was personal.
What do you mean. "personal"?
- We have to get to Sarah Fuller.
- What did she tell you?
Carroll's gonna make a move.
To finish what he started: Sarah.
It's right this way.
I'm Detective Warren.
Miss Fuller went to bed about an hour ago.
Officer Pontz works the front door.
Other officer here.
Two men up the stairs.
WARREN: Officers?
JENNIFER: Where are they?
Officer Watts? Kelly?
Where are you guys?
They should be here.
Sarah?
She's gone. Where is she?
Where the hell is she?
- I don't know.
- How'd she get out'?
We got an officer down!
OFFICER:
Move! Move!
- Go around.
WARREN: Neighbors next door. Let's go.
[WHISPERS]
Give me a light.
[DOOR BANGS]
[SIGHS]
Get the lights. Get the lights!
Hardy.
The neighbors.
Will Wilson and Billy Thomas...
...left in their SUE? 40 minutes ago.
RYAN:
No one thought to search the vehicle?
There was no reason to check.
She wasn't missing.
Will Wilson teaches public school.
2nd grade.
Billy Thomas is a computer tech.
He runs the fraud division of a bank.
I bet they weren't gay either.
Carroll placed them hereto watch over her
until he was ready.
They've been neighbors for three years.
She'd never suspect them. and now
they're taking her straight to Carroll.
He's finding people to help him do it
on the damn Internet.
It's like they're his followers.
I'm not buying two men
would pretend to be gay...
...and shack up next to a woman
because some nut job told them to.
The prison guard worships him.
Ice-pick lady is brainwashed...
...to kill herself.
These two guys have dedicated...
...years of their lives to him.
There's a fanatical obsession
at play here. It's a cult.
Nevermore. "The Raven."
Poe is symbolizing the finality of death.
Have you pulled the GPS?
Where are the satellites?
- I knew you'd show up.
- Do something!
How many check points are set up?
- Get him out of here!
- Move!
No! Hardy!
[GRUNTS]
ANNIE: Back off. dude.
RYAN: Sorry.
ANNIE:
Come on. Sarah.
SARAH:
You don't have to be rude.
Sorry. sir.
ANNIE: There's a killer.
you want me to have manners.
- That was creepy.
SARAH: The whole night's been creepy.
[DOOR CLOSED]
[SARAH SCREAMING]
[PANTING]
SARAH:
Behind you.
[RYAN GRUNTS]
[CARROLL GRUNTS]
[GUNSHOT]
- Hey. what do you got?
- Both men were listed...
-...in the prison's visitor log.
- You got a file on these guys?
Nothing except for some property records
in Lake Whitehurst.
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS]
[TIRES SCREECH]
I came alone. Joe.
Isn't that what you wanted?
SARAH:
No! No!
No!
[PANTING]
SARAH:
No! No!
Hello. Ryan.
[GRUNTS]
I was curious to see
how your heart was holding up.
I see it has its limits.
[RYAN PANTING]
Where is she?
You know. the human eye is connected
by seven muscles.
I removed each one...
...individually.
You know how hard that is to do?
SARAH: No! No! No!
- Sarah!
[RECORDER BEEPS]
No! Ne!
You know how I love my little souvenirs.
No!
[GROANING]
[RYAN SCREAMING]
She lasted much longer
than I thought she would.
She's quite the fighter.
I'd like to turn myself in. I surrender.
[RYAN GRUNTS]
I surrender!
Stop! Hardy!
- I surrender!
- Come on. get off him! Get off him!
I surrender!
[RYAN GRUNTING]
JENNIFER:
Carroll's en route to Richmond.
He'll be placed in federal detention
until this is over.
Eighteen months I worked the case.
Couldn't crack it.
I made so many mistakes.
But Sarah...
...I saved her.
How'd you know he'd be here?
Carroll's book was inspired...
...by Poe's last unfinished work.
"The Light-House."
Sarah was his unfinished work.
Yeah.
He wanted to get the ending right.
Joe Carroll had 47 dedicated websites.
Over a thousand blogs.
chat rooms. online forums.
- He could have multiple resources.
- Hardy. He'll only talk to you.
[DOOR LOCK BUZZES
THEN DOOR OPENS]
Sarah had to die. Ryan.
I know it's sad. It's tragic. Poor thing.
She worked very hard
to get her life back together.
And she had done quite nicely.
which is more than I can say for some.
You've been
quite the disappointment. Ryan.
I never expected you capable
of In Cold Blood...
...but what was it
with that true-crime drivel?
So what's my sequel about. Joe?
Everyone outside is anxious to know.
Hmm.
Well...
It's going to be a collaboration.
We're going to write this together. Ryan.
My first book
was clearly too avant-garde.
Lost in literati pretense.
My new story will play
to a much wider audience.
[CARROLL CHUCKLES]
Even Poe whored himself out eventually.
So the prison guard. gay neighbors...
How do they figure into your new plot?
- We know about the cult.
- I'm not a big fan of that word.
I like to think of them as my friends.
It's important to have friends. Ryan.
Did you know that the FBI estimates...
...that up to 300 serial killers are active
in the U.S. on any given day?
Oh.
OFFICER:
Sorry. didn't mean to scare you.
- Is everything okay?
- Extra patrol this evening.
I thought they caught him.
I saw it on the news.
Mind if I look around.
check your doors and windows?
Do you have any friends. Ryan?
Come on in. I think everyone's asleep.
I will be your friend.
Even though you slept with my wife.
MAN [ON TV]: There is breaking news
tonight from Waverly. Virginia...
...where serial killer Joe Carroll
has finally been caught.
The escaped convict was found
at an abandoned--
Did she show you the letter?
What's he talking about?
What letter?
Claire is very important. Ryan.
Every good story needs a love interest.
- I'm going to bed. Good night.
- Good night.
She's the only woman
I've ever truly loved.
CARROLL:
She's the mother of my son.
Joey?
- And I'd like to see her.
- She'd never agree to that.
She might just change her mind
about that.
Joey? Joey? Where is he? Joey?
CARROLL: I thought I might go
more traditional this time.
Hero. villain. Good versus evil.
I need a strong protagonist...
...so the reader can truly invest.
A flawed. broken man
searching for redemption.
That is you. You are my flawed hero.
Yes. I ensured that by killing Sarah.
She was the inciting incident.
The hero's call to action.
This is merely the prologue.
just the beginning.
That was the entire point
of Sarah's death.
It was for you.
If this book ends with anything
other than your death...
...you better plan on a rewrite.
[SCREAMING]
Guards! Guards! Guards!
Joey. honey? Where are you?
Where's Denise?
Denise? Where is“? Where is Denise?
CARROLL: Guards!
- Don't move!
Where's my son? Joey?
Joey. where are you?
Call Claire.
It's just the beginning.
It's gonna be a classic.
It'll be our masterpiece. Call Claire.
Call Claire!
[English - US - SDH]